# AVIA-The AI Classroom Assistant
**Intel Unnati Industrial training 2025**  
**Problem statement 4: AI-powered classroom learning assistant**  
**Team: TriNethra**

## Project Overview
The AI classroom assistant is an inovative tool to help students improve and analyse their performance using AI, providing features like doubt solving, quizzes and assessments and customized feedbacks.
Simultaneously lets teachers upload content/notes and see the doubts asked by the students and thier quiz reports.

This project lets the teachers log into their accounts and upload the contents of the required class and subject. Meanwhile the students can log into their acccounts and ask doubts,attend quizzes and get their scores,corrected answers and weak topics as feedback.It also has a report section which contains a progress graph and list of all the doubts asked.
This report section can be viewed by the teachers as well thus letting the teacher analyse the performance of the class and can get an understanding of what all doubts have been asked.

## Outcomes
* Lets studsents ask and clarify thier doubts(AI models extracts answers from the content uploaded by the teacher)
* Students can take quiz of the required subject, which is generated by AI
* Quiz feedback containing the correct answers as well as weak topics is generated from the quiz performance
* Report section provides the progress graph and the list of all of the doubts and their answers
* Teachers can upload the required content/notes(used by AI model to generate answers for the doubts asked by the students)
* Teachers report section allows the teacher to view the full report section of the individual students of a class for the required subject
 

## Limitations
* **Limited Feedback Accuracy** :Feedback on weak topics may not always reflect actual
conceptual gaps.
* **Basic Text Input Only** :Currently supports only text-based doubts; no image/audio input
implemented.
* **No Adaptive Learning** :The system doesn’t personalize quiz difficulty based on past
student behavior.
* **Limited Visual Feedback** :Reports and feedback are mostly text-based, with minimal
graphical summaries.
* **Keyword-based Feedback Limitations** :KeyBERT or basic NLP models can extract
misleading or irrelevant topics.
* **Backend Dependency** :Heavy reliance on model processing might cause performance
delays.


## Future developments
* Better higher level AI models for accurate and reliable outputs
* Audio,image and file format support in addition to text-based doubts
* Changing quiz difficulty level using past performance of the student
* A brief description about the topic along with corrected answers of the questions which the student got wrong


## Installation Guide
Follow these steps to set up the project on your local machine:

### Clone the Repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/SwethaA57/AIVA.git
cd AIVA
```

### Set Up a Virtual Environment (python version 3.10.9 recommended)
```
python -m venv venv
#Activate the virtual environment:
#On Windows
venv\Scripts\activate
#On macOS/Linux
source venv/bin/activate
```

### Install Dependencies
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Download AI models
run _convert_model.py, convert_model1.py, export_onnx_qa.py_


### Run backend
```
python app5.py
```

### Run frontend
```
streamlit run main5.py
```

## Contributors
Swetha Anil  
Devika S Nair  
Sneha Ann Abraham
